
IMDb Movie Rating Prediction with Python
Predicting IMDb movie ratings based on various movie features using machine learning models

Overview
This project leverages machine learning techniques to predict IMDb ratings for Indian movies. The dataset includes various movie attributes such as genre, director, actors, and votes. By building several models, we aim to provide insights into how these features influence movie ratings.

Dataset Link:
IMDb India Movies Dataset : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/adrianmcmahon/imdb-india-movies
Key Features of the Project
1. Data Preprocessing:
Cleaning: Handle missing data and transform data types.
Feature Engineering: Convert categorical variables to numerical values, scale the features, and create new insightful features (e.g., Director's Average Rating, Actor Popularity).
2. Machine Learning Models Used:
Linear Regression:
Simple linear regression model to predict ratings based on movie features.
Random Forest Regressor:
Ensemble model utilizing multiple decision trees for robust predictions.
Support Vector Machine (SVM) Regression:
Nonlinear model to capture complex relationships between movie features and ratings.
K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) Regression:
Algorithm predicting ratings based on the average ratings of the nearest neighbors.
Decision Tree Regression:
A tree-like model splitting the data into decision nodes for prediction.
3. Feature Engineering:
Director's Average Rating:
Calculated based on ratings of movies directed by the same individual.
Actor Popularity:
Measured by how frequently an actor appears in top-rated movies.
4. Data Visualization:
Visualizing data distribution, model predictions, and relationships between various features for a clearer understanding of the data.
Model Performance
Each of the models applied in this project demonstrates the power of machine learning in predicting IMDb movie ratings. The results offer valuable insights into the relationships between features and movie ratings, with ensemble models like Random Forest proving to be highly effective.

Although performance metrics are important, this project’s focus is on exploring different models and their ability to predict movie ratings accurately.

Project Workflow
Data Loading & Preprocessing:

Load the dataset from Kaggle.
Clean the data: Handle missing values and encode categorical features.
Generate new features for improved prediction accuracy.
Model Building:

Train the following models:
Linear Regression
Random Forest Regressor
SVM Regression
KNN Regression
Decision Tree Regression
Visualization & Analysis:

Plot visualizations to compare model predictions with actual ratings.
Visualize relationships between movie features such as genre, director, and votes.
Results & Insights:

Compare the effectiveness of each model and analyze their performance.
Provide insights based on the predictions and the data.
Technologies Used
Python Libraries:

Pandas: Data manipulation and cleaning.
NumPy: Numerical operations for feature handling.
Matplotlib & Seaborn: Data visualization.
Scikit-learn: Machine learning model building and evaluation.
Tools:

Jupyter Notebook for interactive exploration and analysis.
Future Improvements
Model Optimization: Further hyperparameter tuning can improve model accuracy.
Deep Learning: Experiment with neural networks to predict ratings with more complex data.
Feature Expansion: Integrating additional attributes like movie budget, production company, or critic reviews could improve predictions.
Conclusion
This project demonstrates the application of machine learning algorithms to predict IMDb movie ratings. We utilized several models, including Random Forest, Linear Regression, and SVM, each providing unique insights into the data. As the model evolves with more features and data, we can achieve even better accuracy and robustness.

Getting Started
To run this project locally, follow these steps:

Clone the repository:


git clone https://github.com/your-username/imdb-rating-prediction.git
Install the required dependencies:


pip install -r requirements.txt
Open the Jupyter notebook and explore the project:


jupyter notebook
Contributing
Feel free to fork the repository, contribute improvements, or suggest new features. All contributions are welcome!
